## Android Broadcast Receivers

Android broadcast receivers are part of the android intent framework and enable components to respond to system-wide event broadcast. This framework disseminates events conveying information of potential interest to zero or more broadcast receivers. In this model subscribers create receivers that register for events that are of interest to them. For example various portions of android are interested in knowing whether the level of battery has reached beyond certain threshold.

Events are implemented as intents that are broadcast system-wide in response to state changes. For example the battery service is the portion of android that monitors the battery level and detects when the battery is low to send a system wide intent(BATTERY_LOW intent) telling that the battery is low. This intent is then broadcast to interested receivers that the battery is low. An android system service then delivers these intents to any registered receivers. An intent is delivered to a receiver by having its `inReceive()` hook method callback from the intents framework.

Intents often come from system services(talking of broadcast receivers). Examples of such intents include:
 
 - ACTION_BOOT_COMPLETED
 - ACTION_POWER_CONNECTED
 - ACTION_POWER_DISCONNECTED
 - ACTION_BATTERY_LOW
 - ACTION_BATTERY_OKAY
 - ACTION_HEADSET_PLUG
 - ACTION_SCREEN_ON
 
 Intents for broadcast receivers can also be generated by our own apps. Using the `sendBroadcast()` method for sending broadcast and then using the `onReceive()` hook method to receive the intent. If the intents are sent across apps, The activity manager service, the same service that filters and resolves implicit intents is used to send the intents to registered apps, however if the intents are sent across the same app then the LocalBroadCast manager is used to perform communication between the same app. The localbroadcast manager also enhances security as the intents never go beyond the app itself